# mechanical-impedance-experiment
Here I post the code that I created to design the experiments and associated analyses from the research paper "Environmental impedance determines the rate of motor adaptation"

The paper is still under review at a journal, but a pre-print version of the abstract is below:

Motor errors, which drive sensorimotor learning, typically reflect spatial mismatches between actions and goals. A key insight is that adaptive responses to these errors elicit changes in muscle-activation, which largely controls force, and thus their ability to correct spatial mismatches depends on the mechanical impedance of the environment. However, if the nervous system could alter adaptive responses based on changes in impedance, then it could more directly control the spatial effects of these responses to spatial errors. Here we show that this is indeed the case. Remarkably, we find that raising the mechanical impedance of the environment can increase the strength of adaptive responses by 3-4x, to levels never previously observed. We also manipulated a visual analog of mechanical impedance and find that adaptive responses increase by 2-3x, with these responses arising from implicit rather than explicit learning. Finally, we find that environmental impedance can be sensed on individual movements based on late-movement feedback. These findings show that movement-by-movement estimates of impedance determine the strength of adaptive responses to errors during sensorimotor learning, and provide insight into how the sensorimotor system estimates impedance.
